## Choosing the right linear voltage regulator or buck converter module.

## DC-DC Converter vs Regulator

A DC-DC converter takes an input DC voltage and generates a different output DC voltage. The main aim of a DC-DC converter is to produce the required output voltages needed by the load that is being driven. Applications may include low voltage electronic components driven by a higher voltage supply, such as in an automotive application. On the other hand, it may be a low voltage battery supply driving components with higher voltage power requirements.

A voltage regulator stabilizes the output voltage by using a control element with feedback from the output load to maintain the required voltage level. The output voltage of an unregulated DC-DC converter will reduce as load current increases. Stabilizing an unregulated converter will require the addition of a separate regulator circuit. Often the term converter is used for a circuit that generates a regulated output voltage, meaning that an independent regulator is not necessary.

There are two main types of DC-DC converters/regulators available, linear and switch mode.

- https://youtu.be/lHK--OKijkQ

- Linear Regulators
Linear regulators use a resistive element to create a voltage drop to reduce the input DC voltage down to the required level. While simple in design and low in cost, this type of converter's efficiency depends on the magnitude of the required voltage drop.

- Switch-mode Regulators
Switch-mode regulators operate by using the input voltage to fill and energy store and then generate the output voltage from this store. The store is a capacitive or inductive component or a combination of the two. The main difference from linear converters is that the output voltage can be higher or lower than the input voltage. Component losses determine the efficiency of the circuit. This efficiency is independent of the magnitude of the difference between the input and output voltages.

Linear converters have one main performance advantage over switch-mode converters. They generate very little electrical noise, the quality of the output voltage being dependant on the noise levels of the input voltage source. By contrast, switched converters create significant levels of electrical noise around the switching frequency of the circuit. Therefore, filtering is required to be applied to the converter's output where noise-sensitive loads are being driven. It can also require input filtering if noise coupling back to the input voltage source could create interference or affect device compliance.

- Step-down/Buck Regulators
A step-down or buck regulator will efficiently lower the input voltage to generate a stable output voltage by switching the input current through an L-C flywheel circuit to drive the load from the stored energy. The output voltage will be determined by the amount of energy stored when the input voltage is switched on. This circuit can also be referred to as a chopper converter.

A step-up or boost regulator will generate a stable output voltage higher than the input voltage by using the input voltage to store energy in an inductor, released when this store is switched on. The voltage generated by the inductor adds to the energy already stored in a capacitor driven by the input voltage. As a result, the capacitor and inductor combine to produce a greater voltage than the input voltage. The output voltage is determined by the mark-space ratio of the pulse width moduled signal used to drive the switch.

using multiple LM317s for the 4 or 3(excluding 12v) voltage outputs. the problem is it has a large voltage drop. So it would need more than 12v to have the desired output voltages and it might need a heatsink, especially input should be more than 12v.

using AM1117(module) or LM1117(TO-220 package) for 3.3v, 7805 or AM1117(module) for 5v, and 7809 for 9v, the 12v will be just straight from the DC jack like the power supply module was using, or a 7812 if wanted to use higher than 12v input voltage.


- LM317
https://robu.in/product/lm317-dc-linear-regulator-dc-dc-4-540v-turn-1-237v-step-down-power-module-adjustable/
- Buck converter
https://robu.in/product/lm2596s-dc-dc-buck-converter-power-supply/
https://robu.in/product/dc-to-dc-6-24v-to-5v-usb-output-step-down-power-charger-buck-converter/
- Boost converter
https://robu.in/product/xl6019e1-dc-dc-step-converter-performance-ultra-lm2577-booster-circuit-board/

## Useful Resources
- https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=IT19dg73nKU&t=0s
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WE8dVxbf1tM&pp=ygUSI3Bvd2VyeW91cnByb2plY3Rz
- https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=giGRrODKJSE&t=302s

